Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Summary for general undergraduates of what is known about human language; biological basis of language, scientific study of language and human cognition; uniqueness of human language, its structure, universality, its diversity; language in social and cultural setting; language in relation to other aspects of human inquiry and knowledge. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Survey of languages of U.S. (American Indian languages, oldest immigrant languages, ethnic and regional varieties of English, and newest arrival languages) and social and political aspects of American language use. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Knowledge of American Sign Language (ASL) not required. Introduction to principles of linguistics through study of structure of American Sign Language and culture of deaf Americans. Phonology, morphology, syntax of ASL, historical change, signed language universals, education, identity, and ASL literature. P/NP or letter grading.
(Formerly numbered 4.) (Same as Indo-European Studies M70.) Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Basic concepts and tools of evolutionary theory and linguistics relevant to how organisms with linguistic abilities could evolve, and how particular languages, as cultural artifacts, survive and change so rapidly. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Introduction to linguistic diversity of world and to such core areas of linguistics as study of sound production and patterning (phonetics and phonology), word formation (morphology), and sentence formation (syntax). Structural characteristics of world languages and methods of classifying languages into families and types. Detailed discussion of representative languages with audiovisual illustrations to acquaint students with distinctive features of several key language families. Discussion of such linguistic concepts as pidgins and creoles, unaffiliated languages, language contact, and language endangerment, together with related sociopolitical issues. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, six hours. How children acquire language, most complex of human cognitive achievements. Look at amazing linguistic abilities of infants and their first perception and production of speech sounds, then investigation of how children learn words and rules for producing and understanding sentences. Language acquisition in special populations such as children acquiring sign languages, bilingual children, and people acquiring language beyond critical period. Focus mainly on English, with consideration of other languages. Offered in summer only. P/NP or letter grading.
(Same as Philosophy M24.) Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). How do we use language to project our own identity? How do we use it to perceive or shape identity of others? Introduction to speech act theory and various claims that speech act theory can account for systematic subordination of women; maligning of racial minorities; and, in some cases, incitement to violence through hate speech. Provides foundation for students of linguistic theory, philosophy, sociology, anthropology, and communication studies. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). How is meaning of language influenced by world around us? Introduction to pragmatics, speech acts, ordinary language philosophy, and linguistic relativity. Good foundation for students of linguistic theory, philosophy, sociology, anthropology, and communication studies. P/NP or letter grading.
Seminar, five hours. Requisite: English Composition 3. Study of how principles of science of linguistics are applied in analyzing language structure. Data from humor and other amusements, such as secret languages (Pig Latin and more). Introduction to basics of linguistics analysis, including language sound systems, syntactic analysis, word structure, word meaning, and pragmatics. Focus on nature of language as innate part of human biology that allows people from all cultural and linguistic backgrounds to adapt language for humorous purposes, albeit shaped by culture as to what counts as funny. Satisfies Writing II requirement. P/NP or letter grading.
(Same as English M40.) Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour. Introduction to structure of English words of classical origin, including most common base forms and rules by which alternate forms are derived. Students may expect to achieve substantial enrichment of their vocabulary while learning about etymology, semantic change, and abstract rules of English word formation. P/NP or letter grading.
Seminar, one hour. Discussion of and critical thinking about topics of current intellectual importance, taught by faculty members in their areas of expertise and illuminating many paths of discovery at UCLA. P/NP grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Introduction to theory and methods of linguistics: universal properties of human language; phonetic, phonological, morphological, syntactic, and semantic structures and analysis; nature and form of grammar. P/NP or letter grading.
(Formerly numbered Applied Linguistics 40W.) Lecture, four hours; discussion, two hours. Enforced requisite: English Composition 3. Prior knowledge of foreign languages not required. Introduction to language from sociological perspective of gender. Use of research and examples in English and other languages to explore nature of male and female genderlects and gendered language, as reflected in lexicon, language behavior, phonetics and intonation, and language acquisition and linguistic change. Satisfies Writing II requirement. Letter grading.
Seminar, three hours. Limited to freshmen/sophomores. Variable topics; consult Schedule of Classes, College of Letters and Science, or department for topics to be offered in specific term. May be repeated for credit. P/NP or letter grading.
Seminar, three hours. Limited to freshmen/sophomores. Variable topics; consult Schedule of Classes, College of Letters and Science, or department for topics to be offered in specific term. May be repeated for credit. P/NP or letter grading.
Seminar, three hours. Limited to 20 students. Designed as adjunct to lower-division lecture course. Exploration of topics in greater depth through supplemental readings, papers, or other activities and led by lecture course instructor. May be applied toward honors credit for eligible students. Honors content noted on transcript. P/NP or letter grading.
Tutorial, three hours. Limited to students in College Honors Program. Designed as adjunct to lower-division lecture course. Individual study with lecture course instructor to explore topics in greater depth through supplemental readings, papers, or other activities. May be repeated for maximum of 4 units. Individual honors contract required. Honors content noted on transcript. Letter grading.
Seminar, three hours; fieldwork, two hours. Variable topics offered by departmental faculty members. May be repeated for credit with topic change. P/NP or letter grading.
Tutorial (supervised research or other scholarly work), three hours per week per unit. Entry-level research for lower-division students under guidance of faculty mentor. Students must be in good academic standing and enrolled in minimum of 12 units (excluding this course). Individual contract required; consult Undergraduate Research Center. May be repeated. P/NP grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Enforced requisite: course 20 with grade of B- or better. Not open for credit to students with credit for course 103. Basics of articulation and acoustics of phonetic categories used in world's languages, including English in comparison with other languages. Practice in speech-sound perception and transcription using International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA). Applications to language learning/teaching and other fields. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Enforced requisite: course 20 with grade of B- or better. Not open for credit to students with credit for course 102. Phonetics of variety of languages and phonetic phenomena that occur in languages of world. Extensive practice in perception and production of such phenomena. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Requisite: course 102 or 103. Survey of principal techniques of experimental phonetics. Use of laboratory equipment for recording and measuring phonetic phenomena. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Enforced requisite: course 20. In linguistics, morphology is study of word structure. Morphological theory seeks to answer questions such as how should words and their component parts (roots, prefixes, suffixes, vowel changes) be classified crosslinguistically? how do speakers store, produce, and process complex words (words with affixes, compounds)? how do speakers know how to produce correct word forms even when they have not previously heard them and how do speakers know that particular words are well-formed or ill-formed? is there principled distinction in traditional division between inflection and derivation? how can we best account for variation in forms that are same (e.g., root in keep/kept even though vowels are different)? can we formulate crosslinguistic generalizations about word structure? P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Requisites: courses 20, 102 or 103, 119A or 120A. Methods and theories appropriate to historical study of language, such as comparative method and method of internal reconstruction. Sound change, grammatical change, semantic change. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours. Limited to and designed for entering linguistics graduate students to help remedy entrance deficiencies in historical linguistics. Basic historical linguistics: methods and theories appropriate to historical study of language, such as comparative methods and method of internal reconstruction. Sound change, grammatical change, semantic change. S/U grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Requisites: courses 20, 102 or 103, and 119A or 120A or 120B. Recommended requisite: course 104 or 204A. Survey of intonational theory for English and other languages, with particular emphasis on phonological models of intonation. Students learn to transcribe intonational elements. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Strongly recommended preparation: course 20. Survey of genetic, areal, and typological classifications of American indigenous languages; writing systems for American indigenous languages; American indigenous languages in social and historical context. One or more languages may be investigated in detail. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Requisite: course 102 or 103. Introduction to field of speech pathology. Topics include biological foundations of speech, language, and hearing; and disorders of speech production, language, voice, and hearing, affecting children and adults. In-class presentation and final term paper required if taken for 4 units. P/NP or letter grading.
(Same as Japanese M120.) Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Enforced requisite: Japanese 3 or 8 or Japanese placement test. Introduction to Japanese grammar and sociolinguistics through reading, discussion, and problem solving in phonology, syntax, semantics, and discourse pragmatics. Letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Enforced requisites: courses 20, and 102 or 103. Not open for credit to students with credit for course 120A. Sound structures and sound patterns in world's languages. Rules, rule ordering, features, syllable, and higher structure. Comparison of sound patterns of different languages. Tools of phonology as applicable to other fields. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Requisites: courses 20, 103. Introduction to phonological theory and analysis. Rules, representations, underlying forms, derivations. Justification of phonological analyses. Emphasis on practical skills with problem sets. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Requisite: course 20 with grade of B- or better. Course 120A is not requisite to 120B. Descriptive analysis of morphological and syntactic structures in natural languages; emphasis on insight into nature of such structures rather than linguistics formalization. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Requisite: course 119B or 120B. Survey of most important theoretical and descriptive claims about nature of meaning. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Requisite: course 20. Study of essential similarities and differences among languages in grammatical devices they use to signal the following kinds of concepts: relations between nouns and verbs (case and word order), negation, comparison, existence/location/possession, causation, interrogation, reflexivization, relativization, attribution (adjectives), time (tense and aspect), and backgrounding (subordination). Data from a range of languages presented and analyzed. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours. Preparation: some knowledge of French (or one Romance language). Enforced requisite: course 120B. Course C128A is enforced requisite to C128B. Aspects of structure of French language, with emphasis on properties of construction not found in English. Concurrently scheduled with course C228A. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours. Preparation: some knowledge of French (or one Romance language). Enforced requisites: courses 120B, C128A. Aspects of structure of French language, with emphasis on properties of construction not found in English. Concurrently scheduled with course C228B. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Requisites: courses 20, 119A or 120A, 119B or 120B. Survey of research and theoretical perspectives in language development in children. Discussion and examination of child language data from English and other languages. Emphasis on universals of language development. Topics include infant speech perception and production, development of phonology, morphology, syntax, and word meaning. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; laboratory, one hour (when scheduled). Requisites: courses 20, 119A or 120A, 119B or 120B. Central issues in language comprehension and production, with emphasis on how theories in linguistics inform processing models. Topics include word understanding (with emphasis on spoken language), parsing, anaphora and inferencing, speech error models of sentence production, and computation of syntactic structure during production. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Requisites: courses 20, 119A or 120A, 119B or 120B. Examination of relationship between brain, language, and linguistic theory, with evidence presented from atypical language development and language disorders in the mature brain. Topics include methodologies to investigate normal and atypical hemispheric specialization for language and children and adults with acquired and/or congenital language disorders. Concurrently scheduled with course C235. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Requisites: courses 119A or 120A, 119B or 120B. Introduction to study of childhood bilingualism and adult and child second language (L2) acquisition, with focus on understanding nature of L2 grammar and grammatical processes underlying L2/bilingual acquisition. Discussion of neurolinguistic and social aspects of bilingualism. Concurrently scheduled with course C244. P/NP or letter grading.
(Same as English Composition M141.) Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour. Enforced requisite: course 20. Survey of theory and practice in teaching second languages, including (1) past and present methods used to teach second languages, (2) current theory and practice underlying skills-based instruction and integrated approaches, and (3) factors that affect second language acquisition and learning. Development of knowledge base in and rational base for design, development, implementation, and evaluation of second language instruction programs. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour. Recommended preparation: knowledge of English and at least one other language. Enforced requisite: course 20. Examination of salient lexical, structural, cultural, and social aspects of translating and interpreting between two languages or dialects. Survey of development of translation theories and rise of community interpreting and critical role of language brokering. P/NP or letter grading.
(Same as Anthropology M150.) Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour; fieldwork, two hours. Requisite: course 20 or Anthropology 4. Study of language as aspect of culture; relation of habitual thought and behavior to language; and language and classification of experience. Holistic approach to study of language, with emphasis on relationship of linguistic anthropology to fields of biological, cultural, and social anthropology, as well as archaeology. P/NP or letter grading.
(Same as Indo-European Studies M150.) Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Enforced requisite: course 1 or 20. Indo-European languages (ancient and modern), including their relationships, chief characteristics, writing systems, and sociolinguistic contexts; nature of reconstructed Indo-European proto-language and proto-culture. One or more Indo-European languages may be investigated in detail. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Requisites: courses 102 or 103, 119A or 120A, 119B or 120B. Analysis of language unknown to members of class from data elicited from native speaker of that language. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Requisites: courses 20 (enforced), and 105 or 119A or 120A. Issues in documenting languages, including collection of primary data using linguistic field methods, organizing data into documents (annotated texts, dictionaries, multimedia presentations, technical articles), audiences for language documents (speakers of target languages, linguists, scholars outside linguistics, general public), presentation and storage of documents (paper publication, online publication, electronic and physical archives), documenting endangered languages, and organizations and initiatives for documenting endangered languages. Presentations focus on case studies. Student projects in assembling primary data and creating annotated texts with commentary. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Requisite: course 120A. To be taken in term following completion of course 120A or as soon as possible thereafter. Further study in phonological theory and analysis: autosegmental theory, syllable structure, metrical theory, interface of phonology and grammar. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Requisite: course 120B. To be taken in term following completion of course 120B or as soon as possible thereafter. Recommended for students who plan to do graduate work in linguistics. Form of grammars, word formation, formal and substantive universals in syntax, relation between syntax and semantics. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Requisite: course 120C. Recommended for students who plan to do graduate work in linguistics. Further study in relevant logics, relations between sentences, lexical semantics, tense and aspect, adverbs, modality and intensionality. P/NP or letter grading.
(Formerly numbered M170.) Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Requisite: course 20. Study of patterned covariation of language and society; social dialects and social styles in language; problems of multilingual societies. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours. Requisites: courses 110, 120A, 120B. Principles of linguistic change as exemplified through detailed study of history of English pronunciation, lexicon, and syntax. P/NP or letter grading.
(Same as Japanese CM122.) Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Recommended preparation: course 20. Enforced requisite: Japanese 3 or 8 or Japanese placement test. Survey of Japanese phonetics, phonology, and morphology. Letter grading.
(Same as Japanese CM123.) Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Enforced requisite: Japanese 4 or 10 or Japanese placement test. Functional linguistic analysis of grammatical structures of Japanese, often in form of contrastive analysis of Japanese, English, and other languages. Letter grading.
(Same as Korean CM120.) Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Recommended preparation: two years of Korean, or one year of Korean and some knowledge of linguistics. Discussion of major syntactic, semantic, and pragmatic characteristics of Korean in light of linguistic universals, with brief introduction to formation, typological features, and phonological structure of Korean. Letter grading.
(Same as Japanese CM127 and Korean CM127.) Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Recommended preparation: two years of Japanese and knowledge of Hangul, or two years of Korean and knowledge of Hiragana. Prior linguistic background also recommended. Critical reading and discussion of selected current research papers in syntax, pragmatics, discourse, and sociolinguistics from perspective of contrastive study of Japanese and Korean. Letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Requisite: course 119B or 120B. Recommended: Philosophy 31. Prior mathematics knowledge not assumed. Mathematical introduction to phonology, syntax, and semantics. Elementary material on logic, sets, functions, relations, and trees. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; laboratory, one hour. Requisites: courses 120B, Program in Computing 10C (or Computer Science 32). Recommended: course 165B or 200B. Overview of formal computational ideas underlying kinds of grammars used in theoretical linguistics and psycholinguistics, and some connections to applications in natural language processing. Topics include recursion, relationship between probabilities and grammars, and parsing algorithms. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Requisite: course 185A. Extension of material in course 185A, with emphasis on computational analysis of current tools and frameworks used in linguistic theory and their cognitive interpretations. P/NP or letter grading.
Tutorial, to be arranged. Enforced corequisite: Honors Collegium 101E. Limited to junior/senior USIE facilitators. Individual study in regularly scheduled meetings with faculty mentor to discuss selected USIE seminar topic, conduct preparatory research, and begin preparation of syllabus. Individual contract with faculty mentor required. May not be repeated. Letter grading.
Tutorial, to be arranged. Enforced requisite: course 188SA. Enforced corequisite: Honors Collegium 101E. Limited to junior/senior USIE facilitators. Individual study in regularly scheduled meetings with faculty mentor to finalize course syllabus. Individual contract with faculty mentor required. May not be repeated. Letter grading.
Tutorial, to be arranged. Enforced requisite: course 188SB. Limited to junior/senior USIE facilitators. Individual study in regularly scheduled meetings with faculty mentor while facilitating USIE 88S course. Individual contract with faculty mentor required. May not be repeated. Letter grading.
Seminar, three hours. Limited to 20 students. Designed as adjunct to undergraduate lecture course. Exploration of topics in greater depth through supplemental readings, papers, or other activities and led by lecture course instructor. May be applied toward honors credit for eligible students. Honors content noted on transcript. P/NP or letter grading.
Tutorial, three hours. Limited to students in College Honors Program. Designed as adjunct to upper-division lecture course. Individual study with lecture course instructor to explore topics in greater depth through supplemental readings, papers, or other activities. May be repeated for maximum of 4 units. Individual honors contract required. Honors content noted on transcript. Letter grading.
Seminar, three hours. Requisite: course 1 or 20. Research seminar on selected topics. Reading, discussion, and development of culminating project. May be repeated for credit with topic change. P/NP or letter grading.
Seminar, three hours. Research seminar on selected topics. Reading, discussion, and development of culminating project. May be repeated for credit with topic change. P/NP or letter grading.
Seminar, seven hours. Limited to juniors/seniors. Training and supervised practicum for advanced undergraduate students to assist in linguistics courses. Students assist in preparation of materials and development of innovative programs under guidance of faculty members and teaching assistants. May not be applied toward course requirements for any Linguistics Department major. Individual contract required. Information and contracts may be obtained from Linguistics Department. P/NP grading.
Seminar, six hours. Limited to juniors/seniors. Training and supervised practicum for advanced undergraduate students to assist in linguistics courses. Students assist in preparation of materials and development of innovative programs under guidance of faculty members and teaching assistants. May not be applied toward course requirements for any Linguistics Department major. Individual contract required. Information and contracts may be obtained from Linguistics Department. P/NP grading.
Seminar, one hour; laboratory, three to six hours. Students actively participate in experimental, computational, or fieldwork linguistics research, and have opportunity to learn variety of research methods in laboratory or other collaborative environment. Students may be involved in various kinds of research methods, including administering experiments, data analysis, and/or participating in corpus annotation. Students are expected to attend regular laboratory meetings, if offered. Consult professor in charge to enroll. May be repeated for credit. Individual contract required. P/NP grading.
Tutorial, to be arranged. Preparation: 3.0 grade-point average in major. Limited to junior/senior majors. Internship in supervised setting in community agency or business related to linguistics and/or applied linguistics. Students meet on regular basis with instructor and provide periodic reports of their experience. Additional supervision to be provided by internship site supervisor. Individual contract with supervising faculty member required. P/NP grading.
Tutorial, four hours. Requisite: course 1 or 20. Limited to juniors/seniors. Individual intensive study, with scheduled meetings to be arranged between faculty member and student. Assigned reading and tangible evidence of mastery of subject matter required. May be repeated for credit. Individual contract required. P/NP or letter grading.
Tutorial, to be arranged. Preparation: 3.5 grade-point average. Requisite or corequisite: course 165A (or 200A) or 165B (or 200B). Recommended: completion of both courses 165A and 165B (or 200A and 200B) before or during term in which course 198A is taken. Limited to juniors/seniors. Development of honors thesis or comprehensive research project on linguistic topic selected by student under direct supervision of faculty member. Consult professor in charge to enroll. May be repeated for credit. Individual contract required. In Progress grading (credit to be given only on completion of course 198B).
Tutorial, to be arranged. Requisite: course 198A. Limited to juniors/seniors. Completion of honors thesis or comprehensive research project begun in course 198A under direct supervision of faculty member. Consult professor in charge to enroll. May be repeated for credit. Individual contract required. Letter grading.
Tutorial, to be arranged. Limited to senior Linguistics majors. Supervised individual research or investigation of linguistic topic selected by student under guidance of faculty mentor. Culminating paper required. Consult professor in charge to enroll. May be repeated for credit. Individual contract required. P/NP or letter grading.
