Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Preparation: three years of high school mathematics. Requisite: successful completion of Mathematics Diagnostic Test. Function concept. Linear and polynomial functions and their graphs, applications to optimization. Inverse, exponential, and logarithmic functions. Trigonometric functions. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Preparation: three and one half years of high school mathematics (including trigonometry). Enforced requisite: successful completion of Mathematics Diagnostic Test (score of 48 or better) or course 1 with grade of C- or better. Not open for credit to students with credit in another calculus sequence. Modeling with functions, limits, and derivatives, decisions and optimization in biology, derivative rules and tools. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 3A with grade of C- or better. Not open for credit to students with credit for course 31B. Applications of differentiation, integration, differential equations, linear models in biology, phase lines and classifying equilibrium values, bifurcations. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 3B with grade of C- or better. Multivariable modeling, matrices and vectors, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, linear and nonlinear systems of differential equations, probabilistic applications of integration. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 31A, 31B. Introductory number theory course for freshmen and sophomores. Topics include prime number theory and cryptographic applications, factorization theory (in integers and Gaussian integers), Pythagorean triples, Fermat descent (for sums of squares and Fermat quartic), Pell's equation, and Diophantine approximation. P/NP or letter grading.
Seminar, one hour. Discussion of and critical thinking about topics of current intellectual importance, taught by faculty members in their areas of expertise and illuminating many paths of discovery at UCLA. P/NP grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Preparation: at least three and one half years of high school mathematics (including some coordinate geometry and trigonometry). Requisite: successful completion of Mathematics Diagnostic Test or course 1 with grade of C- or better. Differential calculus and applications; introduction to integration. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour; laboratory, one hour. Preparation: at least three and one-half years of high school mathematics (including some coordinate geometry and trigonometry). Requisite: successful completion of Mathematics Diagnostic Test or course 1 with grade of C- or better. Not open for credit to students with credit for course 31A. Intended for students who still need to review precalculus material (laboratory) while starting calculus. Differential calculus and applications; introduction to integration. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 31A with grade of C- or better. Not open for credit to students with credit for course 3B. Transcendental functions; methods and applications of integration; sequences and series. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Enforced requisite: course 31A with grade of B or better. Honors course parallel to course 31B. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 31A with grade of C- or better. Not open for credit to students with credit for course 3B, 3C, or 31B. Calculus for applications to economics. Partial differentiation, implicit functions, exponential and logarithmic functions, extrema, optimization, constrained optimization. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Enforced requisite: course 31A with grade of C- or better. Introduction to differential calculus of several variables, vector field theory. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Enforced requisite: course 31A with grade of B or better. Honors course parallel to course 32A. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Enforced requisites: courses 31B and 32A, with grades of C- or better. Introduction to integral calculus of several variables, line and surface integrals. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Enforced requisites: courses 31B and 32A, with grades of B or better. Honors course parallel to course 32B. P/NP or letter grading.
(Same as Computational and Systems Biology M32 and Life Sciences M32.) Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: Life Sciences 30A, 30B. Not open to students with credit for course 31A, 31B, 32A, or 32B. Designed for life sciences students. Methods and results of single and multivariable calculus essential for quantitative training in biology. Limits, differentiation (single and several variables), optimization, integration and methods of integration, Taylor polynomials and applications to approximation, Taylor and other power series, vector valued functions, gradients, and Lagrange multipliers. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Enforced requisite: course 3B or 31B or 32A with grade of C- or better. Introduction to linear algebra: systems of linear equations, matrix algebra, linear independence, subspaces, bases and dimension, orthogonality, least-squares methods, determinants, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, matrix diagonalization, and symmetric matrices. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Enforced requisite: course 3B or 31B or 32A with grade of B or better. Honors course parallel to course 33A. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Enforced requisite: course 31B with grade of C- or better. Highly recommended: course 33A. First-order, linear differential equations; second-order, linear differential equations with constant coefficients; power series solutions; linear systems. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 31A, 31B, 32A, 32B, 33A, one statistics course from Statistics 10, 12, 13, one programming course from Computer Science 31, Program in Computing 10A, Statistics 20. Introduction to data-driven mathematical modeling combing data analysis with mechanistic modeling of phenomena from various applications. Topics include model formulation, data visualization, nondimensionalization and order-of-magnitude physics, introduction to discrete and continuous dynamical systems, and introduction to discrete and continuous stochastic models. Examples drawn from many fields and practice problems from Mathematical Contest in Modeling. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 31A, 31B. Not open for credit to students with credit for course 180 or 184. Discrete structures commonly used in computer science and mathematics, including sets and relations, permutations and combinations, graphs and trees, induction. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 31A, 31B. Introduction to probability through applications and examples. Topics include laws of large numbers, statistics, chance trees, conditional probability, Bayes' rule, continuous and discrete random variables, jointly distributed random variables, multivariate normal and conditional distributions. In-depth discussion of betting schemes in gambling, occurrence of rare events, coincidences, and statistical predictions. P/NP or letter grading.
(Formerly numbered 73SL.) Seminar, two hours; fieldwork, two hours. Introduction to K-12 mathematics activity in U.S. Cultivation of interest in teaching through exploration of sequences of mathematical content and habits of mind taught in K-12. Analysis of sequences of topics in current California State Standards in Mathematics (CCSS-M), mathematical structures that underlie these sequences, and cognitive aspects of learning mathematics. Experience with professional mathematician's habits of mind outlined in CCSS-M (including proof and mathematical modeling), and effective strategies for teaching mathematics to diverse student groups. Fieldwork in local mathematics classroom arranged by Cal Teach program. P/NP grading.
(Formerly numbered 74SL.) Seminar, two hours; fieldwork, two hours. Development of professional mathematical and pedagogical understandings required to teach California's K-5 mathematics curriculum. Exploration of K-5 mathematics, practice of effective teaching strategies for all learners, and discussion of current research and standards in mathematics education. Fieldwork in local mathematics classrooms (observation and presenting lesson plan) arranged by Cal Teach program. P/NP grading.
Seminar, two hours; off-campus classroom observation and participation, two hours. Facilitates development of professional mathematical and pedagogical understandings required to teach California middle school mathematics curriculum. Exploration of topics in grades six through eight mathematics from professional perspective, practice with effective teaching strategies for all learnings, and discussion of current research and standards in mathematics education. Clinical practice in local mathematics classrooms arranged by Cal Teach program. P/NP grading.
Seminar, three hours. Limited to 20 students. Designed as adjunct to lower-division lecture course. Exploration of topics in greater depth through supplemental readings, papers, or other activities and led by lecture course instructor. May be applied toward honors credit for eligible students. Honors content noted on transcript. P/NP or letter grading.
Tutorial, three hours. Limited to students in College Honors Program. Designed as adjunct to lower-division lecture course. Individual study with lecture course instructor to explore topics in greater depth through supplemental readings, papers, or other activities. May be repeated for maximum of 4 units. Individual honors contract required. Honors content noted on transcript. Letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Enforced requisites: courses 32A, 32B. Not open for credit to students with credit for course 131A or 132. Introduction to rigorous methods of proof-based upper-division mathematics courses. Basic logic; structure of mathematical proofs; sets, functions, and cardinality; natural numbers and induction; construction of real numbers; topology of real numbers; sequences and convergence; continuity. May not be applied toward major requirements. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Study of selected topics in mathematics at introductory level. P/NP or letter grading.
Laboratory, three hours. Corequisite: associated undergraduate lecture course in mathematics for life sciences majors. Limited to Program for Excellence in Education and Research in Science (PEERS) students. Development of intuition and problem-solving skills in collaborative learning environment. May be repeated four times, but only 1 unit may be applied toward graduation. P/NP grading.
Laboratory, three hours. Corequisite: associated undergraduate lecture course in mathematics for physical sciences and engineering majors. Limited to Program for Excellence in Education and Research in Science (PEERS) students. Development of intuition and problem-solving skills in collaborative learning environment. May be repeated four times, but only 1 unit may be applied toward graduation. P/NP grading.
Tutorial (supervised research or other scholarly work), three hours per week per unit. Entry-level research for lower-division students under guidance of faculty mentor. Students must be in good academic standing and enrolled in minimum of 12 units (excluding this course). Individual contract required; consult Undergraduate Research Center. May be repeated. P/NP grading.
Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 31A with grade of C- or better. Problem-solving techniques and mathematical topics useful as preparation for Putnam Examination and similar competitions. Continued fractions, inequalities, modular arithmetic, closed form evaluation of sums and products, problems in geometry, rational functions and polynomials, other nonroutine problems. Participants expected to take Putnam Examination. P/NP grading.
Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 100 or significant experience with mathematical competitions. Enrollment based on one selection test or past Putnam results. Advanced problem solving techniques and mathematical topics useful as preparation for Putnam competition. Problems in abstract algebra, linear algebra, number theory, combinatorics, probability, real and complex analysis, differential, equations, Fourier analysis. Regular practice tests given, similar in difficulty to Putnam competition. May be repeated for maximum of 12 units. P/NP or letter grading.
Seminar, one hour; fieldwork (classroom observation and participation), two hours. Requisite: course 115A. Course 103A is enforced requisite to 103B, which is enforced requisite to 103C. Facilitates student development in mathematical and pedagogical understandings required to teach middle school mathematics curriculum. Exploration of California's grades 6 through 8 mathematics from professional perspective, practice with effective teaching strategies for all learners, and discussion of current research and standards in mathematics education with fieldwork in local mathematics classrooms. P/NP (undergraduates) or S/U (graduates) grading.
Seminar, one hour; fieldwork (classroom observation and participation), two hours. Enforced requisite: course 103A. Observation, participation, or tutoring in mathematics classes at middle school and secondary levels. May be repeated for credit. P/NP (undergraduates) or S/U (graduates) grading.
Seminar, one hour; fieldwork (classroom observation and participation), two hours. Enforced requisite: course 103B. Observation, participation, or tutoring in mathematics classes at middle school and secondary levels. May be repeated for credit. P/NP (undergraduates) or S/U (graduates) grading.
Lecture, four hours; fieldwork, 30 minutes. Requisites: courses 110A (or 117), 120A (or 123), and 131A, with grades of C- or better. Course 105A is requisite to 105B, which is requisite to 105C. Mathematical knowledge and research-based pedagogy needed for teaching key geometry topics in secondary school, including axiomatic systems, measure, and geometric transformations. Introduction to professional standards and current research for teaching secondary school mathematics. Letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; fieldwork, 30 minutes. Requisites: courses 105A, 110A (or 117), 120A (or 123), and 131A, with grades of C- or better. Mathematical knowledge and research-based pedagogy needed for teaching key polynomial, rational, and transcendental functions and related equations in secondary school; professional standards and current research for teaching secondary school mathematics. Letter grading.
Lecture, four hours; fieldwork, 30 minutes. Requisites: courses 105A, 105B, 110A (or 117), 120A (or 123), and 131A, with grades of C- or better. Mathematical knowledge and research-based pedagogy needed for teaching key analysis, probability, and statistics topics in secondary school; professional standards and current research for teaching secondary school mathematics. Letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 31A, 31B, 32A. Roots of modern mathematics in ancient Babylonia and Greece, including place value number systems and proof. Development of algebra through Middle Ages to Fermat and Abel, invention of analytic geometry and calculus. Selected topics. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 115A. Not open for credit to students with credit for course 117. Ring of integers, integral domains, fields, polynomial domains, unique factorization. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Honors course parallel to course 110A.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 110A or 117. Groups, structure of finite groups. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Honors course parallel to course 110B.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 110A, 110B. Field extensions, Galois theory, applications to geometric constructions, and solvability by radicals.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: courses 110A. Algebraic number theory (including prime ideal theory), cyclotomic fields and reciprocity laws, Diophantine equations (especially quadratic forms, elliptic curves), equations over finite fields, topics in theory of primes, including prime number theorem and Dirichlet's theorem. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 110A or 131A or Philosophy 135. Effectively calculable, Turing computable, and recursive functions; Church/Turing thesis. Normal form theorem; universal functions; unsolvability and undecidability results. Recursive and recursively enumerable sets; relative recursiveness, polynomial-time computability. Arithmetical hierarchy. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 110A or 131A or Philosophy 135. Introduction to mathematical logic, aiming primarily at completeness and incompleteness theorems of Gödel. Propositional and predicate logic; syntax and semantics; formal deduction; completeness, compactness, and Lowenheim/Skolem theorems. Formal number theory: nonstandard models; Gödel incompleteness theorem. P/NP or letter grading.
(Same as Philosophy M134.) Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 110A or 131A or Philosophy 135. Axiomatic set theory as framework for mathematical concepts; relations and functions, numbers, cardinality, axiom of choice, transfinite numbers. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, two hours. Requisite: course 33A. Techniques of proof, abstract vector spaces, linear transformations, and matrices; determinants; inner product spaces; eigenvector theory. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, two hours. Requisite: course 33A with grade of B or better. Honors course parallel to course 115A. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 115A. Linear transformations, conjugate spaces, duality; theory of a single linear transformation, Jordan normal form; bilinear forms, quadratic forms; Euclidean and unitary spaces, symmetric skew and orthogonal linear transformations, polar decomposition. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 115A. Not open for credit to students with credit for Program in Computing 130. Introduction to mathematical cryptology using methods of number theory, algebra, probability. Topics include symmetric and public-key cryptosystems, one-way functions, signatures, key exchange, groups, primes, pseudoprimes, primality tests, quadratic reciprocity, factoring, rho method, RSA, discrete logs. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 115A. Not open for credit to students with credit for course 110A. Integers, congruences; fields, applications of finite fields; polynomials; permutations, introduction to groups.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 42, 115A. Introduction to computational methods for data problems with focus on linear algebra and optimization. Matrix and tensor factorization, PageRank, assorted other topics in matrices, linear programming, unconstrained optimization, constrained optimization, integer optimization, dynamic programming, and stochastic optimization. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 32B, 33B, 115A, 131A. Course 120A is requisite to 120B. Curves in 3-space, Frenet formulas, surfaces in 3-space, normal curvature, Gaussian curvature, congruence of curves and surfaces, intrinsic geometry of surfaces, isometries, geodesics, Gauss/Bonnet theorem. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 32B, 33B, 115A, 120A, 131A. Curves in 3-space, Frenet formulas, surfaces in 3-space, normal curvature, Gaussian curvature, congruence of curves and surfaces, intrinsic geometry of surfaces, isometries, geodesics, Gauss/Bonnet theorem. P/NP or letter grading.
Requisite: course 131A. Metric and topological spaces, completeness, compactness, connectedness, functions, continuity, homeomorphisms, topological properties.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 115A. Axioms and models, Euclidean geometry, Hilbert axioms, neutral (absolute) geometry, hyperbolic geometry, Poincaré model, independence of parallel postulate.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 32B, 33B. Recommended: course 115A. Rigorous introduction to foundations of real analysis; real numbers, point set topology in Euclidean space, functions, continuity. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 32B and 33B, with grades of B or better. Recommended: course 115A. Honors course parallel to course 131A. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 33B, 115A, 131A. Derivatives, Riemann integral, sequences and series of functions, power series, Fourier series. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Honors course parallel to course 131B. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 131A-131B. Advanced topics in analysis, such as Lebesgue integral, integration on manifolds, harmonic analysis. Content varies from year to year. May be repeated for credit by petition.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 32B, 33B. Introduction to basic formulas and calculation procedures of complex analysis of one variable relevant to applications. Topics include Cauchy/Riemann equations, Cauchy integral formula, power series expansion, contour integrals, residue calculus.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 32B, 33B, and 131A, with grades of B or better. Specifically designed for students who have strong commitment to pursue graduate studies in mathematics. Introduction to complex analysis, with more emphasis on proofs. Honors course parallel to course 132. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 33A, 33B, 131A. Fourier series, Fourier transform in one and several variables, finite Fourier transform. Applications, in particular, to solving differential equations. Fourier inversion formula, Plancherel theorem, convergence of Fourier series, convolution. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 33B. Dynamical systems analysis of nonlinear systems of differential equations. One- and two- dimensional flows. Fixed points, limit cycles, and stability analysis. Bifurcations and normal forms. Elementary geometrical and topological results. Applications to problems in biology, chemistry, physics, and other fields. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 33A, 33B. Selected topics in differential equations. Laplace transforms, existence and uniqueness theorems, Fourier series, separation of variable solutions to partial differential equations, Sturm/Liouville theory, calculus of variations, two-point boundary value problems, Green's functions. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 33A, 33B. Linear partial differential equations, boundary and initial value problems; wave equation, heat equation, and Laplace equation; separation of variables, eigenfunction expansions; selected topics, as method of characteristics for nonlinear equations.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 32B, 33B. Introduction to fundamental principles and spirit of applied mathematics. Emphasis on manner in which mathematical models are constructed for physical problems. Illustrations from many fields of endeavor, such as physical sciences, biology, economics, and traffic dynamics.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 32B, 33B. Integral equations, Green's function, and calculus of variations. Selected applications from control theory, optics, dynamical systems, and other engineering problems.
(Same as Statistics M148.) Lecture, four hours. Requisites: courses 118, 131A, 156 or Statistics 101C, 170S or Statistics 100B, Statistics 101A. Students solve real data science problems for community- or campus-based clients. Students work in small groups with faculty member and client to frame client's question in data science terms, create mathematical models, analyze data, and report results. Students may elect to undertake research on foundations of data science, studying advanced topics and writing senior thesis with discussion of findings or survey of literature on chosen foundational topic. Development of collaborative skills, communication principles, and discussion of ethical issues. Letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 32B, 33B, 115A, Program in Computing 10A or Computer Science 31. Introduction to numerical methods with emphasis on algorithms, analysis of algorithms, and computer implementation issues. Solution of nonlinear equations. Numerical differentiation, integration, and interpolation. Direct methods for solving linear systems. Letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 32B, 33B, 115A, 131A, Computer Science 31 or Programming in Computing 10A or equivalent, with grades of B or better. Not open for credit to students with credit for course 151A. Rigorous introduction to numerical algorithms including necessary skills to apply algorithms in statistics, imaging, data science, engineering, and related fields. Root finding, solving linear systems, interpolation, quadrature, and finding eigenvalues. MatLab programming. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 151A. Introduction to numerical methods with emphasis on algorithms, analysis of algorithms, and computer implementation issues. Solution of nonlinear equations. Numerical differentiation, integration, and interpolation. Direct methods for solving linear systems. Letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 115A or 115AH, 131A or 131AH, 151A or 151AH, Computer Science 31 or Programming in Computing 10A, with grades of B or better. Rigorous introduction to numerical algorithms including necessary skills to apply algorithms in statistics, imaging, data science, engineering and related fields. Finding eigenvalues, finding numerical solutions to ordinary differential equations, the least squares problem and the fast Fourier transform. MatLab programming. Honors course parallel to course 151B. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 32B, 33B, 115A, Program in Computing 10A or Computer Science 31. Imaging geometry. Image transforms. Enhancement, restoration, and segmentation. Descriptors. Morphology. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 115A, 164, 170A or 170E or Statistics 100A, and Computer Science 31 or Program in Computing 10A. Strongly recommended requisite: Program in Computing 16A or Statistics 21. Introductory course on mathematical models for pattern recognition and machine learning. Topics include parametric and nonparametric probability distributions, curse of dimensionality, correlation analysis and dimensionality reduction, and concepts of decision theory. Advanced machine learning and pattern recognition problems, including data classification and clustering, regression, kernel methods, artificial neural networks, hidden Markov models, and Markov random fields. Projects in MATLAB to be part of final project presented in class. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Enforced requisites: courses 115A, 131A. Not open for credit to students with credit for former Electrical Engineering 136. Fundamentals of optimization. Linear programming: basic solutions, simplex method, duality theory. Unconstrained optimization, Newton method for minimization. Nonlinear programming, optimality conditions for constrained problems. Additional topics from linear and nonlinear programming. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 115A. Quantitative modeling of strategic interaction. Topics include extensive and normal form games, background probability, lotteries, mixed strategies, pure and mixed Nash equilibria and refinements, bargaining; emphasis on economic examples. Optional topics include repeated games and evolutionary game theory. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 115A, 170E (or 170A or Electrical and Computer Engineering 131A or Statistics 100A). Introduction to network science (including theory, computation, and applications), which can be used to study complex systems of interacting agents. Study of networks in technology, social, information, biological, and mathematics involving basic structural features of networks, generative models of networks, network summary statistics, centrality, random graphs, clustering, and dynamical processes on networks. Introduction to advanced topics as time permits. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 32B, 33A, 131A. Not open to students with credit for course 170E, Electrical and Computer Engineering 131A, or Statistics 100A. Rigorous presentation of probability theory based on real analysis. Probability space, probability and conditional probability, independence, Bayes' rule, discrete and continuous random variables and their distributions, expectation, moments and variance, conditional distribution and expectation, weak law of large numbers. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Enforced requisites: courses 131A, 170A. Continuation of rigorous presentation of probability theory based on real analysis. Moments and generating functions; laws of large numbers, central limit theorem, and convergence in distribution; branching processes; random walks; Poisson and other random processes in continuous time. Advance topics in probability theory. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 31A, 31B. Not open to students with credit for course 170A, Electrical and Computer Engineering 131A, or Statistics 100A. Introduction to probability theory with emphasis on topics relevant to applications. Topics include discrete (binomial, Poisson, etc.) and continuous (exponential, gamma, chi-square, normal) distributions, bivariate distributions, distributions of functions of random variables (including moment generating functions and central limit theorem). P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 31A, 31B, and 170A or 170E or Statistics 100A. Not open to students with credit for Statistics 100B. Introduction to statistics. Topics include sampling, estimation (maximum likelihood and Bayesian), properties of estimators, regression, confidence intervals, hypotheses testing, analysis of variance. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 33A, 170E (or 170A or Statistics 100A). Discrete Markov chains, continuous-time Markov chains, renewal theory. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Enforced requisites: courses 33A, and 170A or 170E or Statistics 100A. Not open for credit to students with credit for course 174A, Economics 141, or Statistics C183/C283. Mathematical modeling of financial securities in discrete and continuous time. Forwards, futures, hedging, swaps, uses and pricing (tree models and Black-Scholes) of European and American options, Greeks and numerical methods. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 32B. Types of interest, time value of money, annuities and similar contracts, loans, bonds, portfolios and general cash flows, rate of return, term structure of interest rates, duration, convexity and immunization, interest rate swaps, financial derivatives, forwards, futures, and options. Letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 32B, 170A or 170E (or Statistics 100A), 175 or 177. Introduction to mathematics associated with long-term insurance coverages. Single- and multiple-life survival models, annuities, premium calculations and policy values, reserves, pension plans and retirement benefits. Letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 170B or 170S (or Statistics 100B), 178A. Multistate models, covers pensions, health insurances, and profit-testing. Study of probability distributions employed most commonly in actuarial theory. Beginning study of short-term actuarial mathematics. Letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 178B. Study of loss models associated with actuarial problems. Covers severity, frequency, and aggregate loss models, parameter estimation (frequentist, Bayesian), model selection, and credibility. Letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 174E. Continuation of course 174E. In-depth study of risk measures and instruments of risk management in investment portfolios and corporate financial structure. Exotic and real options, value at risk, mean-variance analysis, portfolio optimization, risk analysis, capital asset pricing model, market efficiency, and Modigliani-Miller theory. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 31A, 31B, 61. Strongly recommended: course 115A. Designed for mathematics and computer science and engineering students. Graphs and trees. Planarity, graph colorings. Set systems. Ramsey theory. Random graphs. Linear algebra methods. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 3C or 32A, and 61. Not open for credit to students with credit for Computer Science 180. Graphs, greedy algorithms, divide and conquer algorithms, dynamic programming, network flow. Emphasis on designing efficient algorithms useful in diverse areas such as bioinformatics and allocation of resources. P/NP or letter grading.
Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Enforced requisites: courses 31A, 31B, 61, 115A. Designed for mathematics and physics students. Permutations and combinations, counting principles, recurrence relations, and generating functions. Application to asymptotic and probabilistic enumeration. P/NP or letter grading.
Tutorial, to be arranged. Enforced corequisite: Honors Collegium 101E. Limited to junior/senior USIE facilitators. Individual study in regularly scheduled meetings with faculty mentor to discuss selected USIE seminar topic, conduct preparatory research, and begin preparation of syllabus. Individual contract with faculty mentor required. May not be repeated. Letter grading.
Tutorial, to be arranged. Enforced requisite: course 188SA. Enforced corequisite: Honors Collegium 101E. Limited to junior/senior USIE facilitators. Individual study in regularly scheduled meetings with faculty mentor to finalize course syllabus. Individual contract with faculty mentor required. May not be repeated. Letter grading.
Tutorial, to be arranged. Enforced requisite: course 188SB. Limited to junior/senior USIE facilitators. Individual study in regularly scheduled meetings with faculty mentor while facilitating USIE 88S course. Individual contract with faculty mentor required. May not be repeated. Letter grading.
Seminar, three hours. Limited to 20 students. Designed as adjunct to undergraduate lecture course. Exploration of topics in greater depth through supplemental readings, papers, or other activities and led by lecture course instructor. May be applied toward honors credit for eligible students. Honors content noted on transcript. P/NP or letter grading.
Tutorial, three hours. Limited to students in College Honors Program. Designed as adjunct to upper-division lecture course. Individual study with lecture course instructor to explore topics in greater depth through supplemental readings, papers, or other activities. May be repeated for maximum of 4 units. Individual honors contract required. Honors content noted on transcript. Letter grading.
Seminar, one hour. Designed for undergraduate students. Readings and presentations of papers in mathematical literature under supervision of staff member. One-hour presentation required. P/NP grading.
Seminar, one hour. Designed for undergraduate students. Readings and presentations of papers in mathematical literature under supervision of staff member. One-hour presentation required. P/NP grading.
Seminar, one hour. Designed for undergraduate students. Readings and presentations of papers in mathematical literature under supervision of staff member. One-hour presentation required. P/NP grading.
Seminar, one hour. Designed for undergraduate students. Readings and presentations of papers in mathematical literature under supervision of staff member. One-hour presentation required. P/NP grading.
Seminar, one hour. Designed for undergraduate students. Readings and presentations of papers in mathematical literature under supervision of staff member. One-hour presentation required. P/NP grading.
Seminar, one hour. Designed for undergraduate students. Readings and presentations of papers in mathematical literature under supervision of staff member. One-hour presentation required. P/NP grading.
Seminar, one hour. Designed for undergraduate students. Readings and presentations of papers in mathematical literature under supervision of staff member. One-hour presentation required. P/NP grading.
Seminar, one hour. Designed for undergraduate students. Readings and presentations of papers in mathematical literature under supervision of staff member. One-hour presentation required. P/NP grading.
Seminar, one hour. Designed for undergraduate students. Readings and presentations of papers in mathematical literature under supervision of staff member. One-hour presentation required. P/NP grading.
Seminar, one hour. Designed for undergraduate students. Readings and presentations of papers in mathematical literature under supervision of staff member. One-hour presentation required. P/NP grading.
Seminar, one hour. Designed for undergraduate students. Readings and presentations of papers in mathematical literature under supervision of staff member. One-hour presentation required. P/NP grading.
Seminar, one hour. Designed for undergraduate students. Readings and presentations of papers in mathematical literature under supervision of staff member. One-hour presentation required. P/NP grading.
Seminar, one hour. Designed for undergraduate students. Readings and presentations of papers in mathematical literature under supervision of staff member. One-hour presentation required. P/NP grading.
Seminar, one hour. Designed for undergraduate students. Readings and presentations of papers in mathematical literature under supervision of staff member. One-hour presentation required. P/NP grading.
Seminar, one hour. Designed for undergraduate students. Readings and presentations of papers in mathematical literature under supervision of staff member. One-hour presentation required. P/NP grading.
Seminar, three hours. Variable topics research course in mathematics that covers material not covered in regular mathematics upper-division curriculum. Reading, discussion, and development of culminating project. May be repeated for credit with topic and/or instructor change. P/NP or letter grading.
Seminar, three hours. Participating seminar on advanced topics in mathematics. Content varies from year to year. May be repeated for credit by petition. P/NP or letter grading.
(Formerly numbered 192A.) (Same as Chemistry M192E, Computer Science M192A, Life Sciences M192A, and Physics M192S.) Seminar, one hour. Training seminar for undergraduate students who are selected for learning assistant (LA) program. Exploration of current topics in pedagogy and education research focused on methods of learning and their practical application in small-group settings. Students practice communication skills with frequent assessment of and feedback on progress. Letter grading.

Tutorial, to be arranged. Limited to juniors/seniors. Internship to be supervised by Center for Community Learning and Mathematics Department. Students meet on regular basis with instructor, provide periodic reports of their experience, have assigned readings on mathematics education, and complete final paper. May not be repeated and may not be applied toward major requirements. Individual contract with supervising faculty member required. P/NP grading.
Tutorial, three hours per week per unit. Limited to juniors/seniors. At discretion of chair and subject to availability of staff, individual intensive study of topics suitable for undergraduate course credit but not specifically offered as separate courses. Scheduled meetings to be arranged between faculty member and student. Assigned reading and tangible evidence of mastery of subject matter required. May be repeated for maximum of 12 units, but no more than one 197 or 199 course may be applied toward upper-division courses required for majors offered by Mathematics Department. Individual contract required. P/NP or letter grading.
Tutorial, three hours per week per unit. Limited to juniors/seniors. Supervised individual research under guidance of faculty mentor. Scheduled meetings to be arranged between faculty member and student. Culminating report required. May be repeated for maximum of 12 units, but no more than one 197 or 199 course may be applied toward upper-division courses required for majors offered by Mathematics Department. Individual contract required. P/NP or letter grading.
